Let's now take a small break
from building our API
and build a fun little script
that will import the tour data from our JSON file
into the MongoDB database.
And I wasn't really sure
if I should include this video in the course
or if I should just come with the script
already in the course starter files.
But I thought I thought it was a nice little exercise
and so I included it anyways.
So, anyway, let's now get started.
So, basically we're gonna create a script
that will simply load the data from the JSON file
as I just said into the database.
And this script is completely independent
of the rest of our express application.
And so we'll run this completely separately
from the comment line just to import everything once.
Okay, so let me actually create the script
right here in the data folder.
So new file,
import,
dev data.js.
All right.
So, what are we gonna need for this?
We will need mongoose of course
so let's start with that.
Or actually, let's just go ahead into the server.js file
and copy this stuff
because why writing it all over again.
So let's copy everything
and then delete what we don't need.
So we don't need our express application
we also need the .env package
because we need our environment variables
in order to be able to connect to the database again, okay.
And we need to connect to the database in this script
again because it runs completely independent
from the express application.
It's only gonna run once in the beginning.
Next up, we need access to the file system module
because of course we want to read the JSON file.
So require fs
and finally we also need access to the tour model
because the tour model is
where we want to write the tours to, right?
So, tour equals
and now let's find the path there
so from the place where we are right now
we need to go up one level.
And what's going on here with these quotes?
All right, so one level up
and we're in dev data.
So we need another level up
so that we're in the main folder.
And from there we go in to models
and into the tour model.
Okay and that should be it for setup.
Now let's start by reading the file.
So, read JSON file
and that should be fairly simple.
So the tours are at fs.readfile
and we can use the synchronous version of course.
And let's simply say tours simple.json, okay.
And then,
also the encoding.
So, file encoding, utf eight.
Give it a save.
And so now we can write the actual function
that is gonna import the data into the database.
So import data into database.
Okay, just like this.
And so let's create this function.
Import data, import data,
yep.
And that's gonna be and async function
which does not need any arguments
and so let's again use a try catch block here.
And here I'm simply gonna log it to the console
if there is some error,
just to know what's going on in that case.
And now here,
what we will do is very simple.
We are simply gonna await,
tour.create.
So we already used tour.create
and we pass then an object back then right?
But the create method can also accept an array of objects.
And in that case
it will then simply create a new document
for each of the objects in the array.
So, very simple,
all we have to do is to specify our tours data here, right?
And actually it's not 100% correct
because remember that this is JSON.
And so we need to first convert it actually
into a JavaScript object using json.parse.
Okay and so now we actually have
an array of JavaScript objects
that we can now pass into the create method, okay.
And if that was successful,
then the next line is gonna be executed
and so here we can say data successfully
loaded, all right.
And this should already do the job.
Now what about the data that is already in the database?
We can also create an easy way
to basically delete all of that data at the same time.
And so let's simply go ahead and do that as well.
So, delete all data
from collection, let's say.
And this weird yellow color that you see here
actually comes from an extension that I have installed here.
And so to get rid of that,
I'm simply gonna write database again, okay.
So delete data
and again this is gonna be an async function
without any arguments.
And let me actually copy this code here.
So, delete it
and now about the deleting itself
we can use the delete many function.
Okay and actually I showed you this one
back in the intro to MongoDB, right?
Where we could use delete many
and then simply pass in nothing in there
and that would then delete
all of the documents in a certain collection, right?
And so mongoose basically implemented
the same function here on the model, okay.
So in this case,
the tour model has access to this delete many method
which will then do exactly the same
as delete many does in native MongoDB, right?
So, remember that mongoose is just a,
like a layer of abstraction on top of MongoDB.
Which is why it doesn't use the exact same functions
but it still gives us access to some similar ones
or to ones that actually have the same name.
So delete many actually has the same name
as the native MongoDB function, all right?
So again, what this is gonna do is to simply go ahead
and delete all the documents in the tours collection.
So, we have our two functions here
but if we now actually run this file
then nothing will happen.
And that's because
we're not calling any of these functions anywhere, right?
Now we could go ahead
and simply write something like import data here
and then simply call the function here
but I wanted to make this a little bit more fun.
So let's now actually learn a tiny little bit
about interacting with the command line, okay.
And so I'm actually gonna go ahead
and run this file without calling any of these functions.
But instead I'm gonna log to the console
process.argv,
okay.
Just so we can see what process.argv actually is
so that we can then use it.
All right.
Let me open up here another terminal
and then I will use node,
go into dev data
then into data
and then in there import dev data.
And we get some errors here.
Let's see where.
Ah, yeah so it's because of this,
of this file name.
So I guess we should specify the path to there basically.
So let's run this one again
and again we have this error.
And yeah, of course I get this error.
That's a stupid one.
Remember how I told you
that this dot here is always relative from the folder
where the node application was actually started.
And so that's the home folder.
And so we're basically looking for this file here
in the home folder, okay.
So what I should use instead is the dir name,
variable that is available to us everywhere.
So that goes like this.
All right.
Give it another save
and clear up the console and run it again.
And so now it works.
And so here
is the result of this console.log that we have down here,
So process.argv
and basically that is an array
of these two arguments of running this node process.
So, this here is basically
where the node command is located.
So this equivalent to this node
and then the second one,
so this path to this file is actually this here, okay.
So let's quit this here
and let's add kind of an option here.
So I'm gonna write,
dash, dash import
and so I'm sure you have seen something like this
many times before.
For example, when we save a package as a dev dependency
we do it like this.
Save dev, and so we use the same
kind of format for specifying options.
Okay so, dash dash
and then whatever string we put here.
And so I choose to basically specify
the import option like this.
And so you see that now the third argument
is dash dash import, all right?
And so that means that we can now go ahead
and basically use this data here
in order to write
a very simple command line application basically
which will import the data when we specify this option
and will delete the data
when we specify the delete option, all right?
So, let's actually do that.
So, if
process.argv
and it's an array
and we want the third.
So zero, one, two.
So if that element is equal to import
well, then we want to run import data.
Right?
If...
Process.argv two
is equal,
to delete then we want to run
delete data.
And that's it.
So, that should actually give us
the result that we're looking for.
Let's finish this here.
And so now let's run the command here
with delete in order to delete all the data
that we have in the database.
So let's try that out.
It's doing something
and data successfully deleted.
So let's take a look at that now.
And if we run now this get all tours route
then indeed we have zero results.
So, all our tours are now gone.
So it worked.
Now this process here is basically still running.
And so let's quickly fix that,
which is kind of easy.
So, that's a new one we haven't used yet.
Which is process.exit,
All right?
Now this process.exit is kind of an aggressive way
of stopping an application
but in this case it's no problem
because it's really just a very small script
that we're running here and not a real application, right?
Let's just copy the same thing here
into our import data function.
And so now I'm gonna quit it.
And just to show that it works
I'm gonna run it again
so data successfully deleted
and then it exited the process.
All right.
And so now it's time to actually run the function
that we were interested in in the first place.
So with the import flag, basically.
So the import option.
So let's run that
and let's see if it actually works.
And it didn't.
So why is that?
So it tells us here a tour must have a group size.
So where's that coming from?
And we see a lot of validation errors here.
So something must have gone wrong here.
So yeah, we have the cover image,
we have the tour description.
We have the price.
Well, that's weird.
Max group size,
let me actually check if anything happened here.
Actually we have nine tours here
and I think nine is actually all we have.
And so to me it kind of looks like it actually did work.
But let's actually take a quick look at our data here.
So, just to figure out why this actually happens.
So tour simple here
and so we can already see,
actually the problem that is happening.
So we have all these tours
so the original ones.
But then from the last section,
we have these three here
that we kind of added using our file based API.
So, remember that?
So back then we only specified the name, duration
and difficulty and nothing else.
And so right now
our script is trying to import these three tours.
But of course, we're not interested in them at all
and so let's go ahead and save this here, okay.
Then quit this process
and so actually this process.exit
can be outside of the try catch block
and be simply here by the end of the function.
So that no matter if there's an error or not
it will always just exit the process.
All right.
So let's delete everything.
All right, clear the console again.
Now import,
and yeah.
So data successfully loaded.
As indeed here we are again.
So now it's working 100%,
we have our data that we can start working with now
and so, yeah.
Our work with this one here is done.
So, a nice little function,
or a nice little script actually.
I hope that everything made sense to you
and yeah that it was kind of a fun exercise for you as well.
Anyway, see you in the next video
where we are finally starting to then use all this data
and to improve our API
by implementing a couple of nice features.